Al jaz's hind Al hudi is in Dar Bala
where that attack on world Central
Kitchen employees happened she reports
from the
scene I'm currently standing in front
one of the vehicles that has been
targeted by the Israeli forces last
night this car and two other cars across
the AR Rashid Street have been targeted
by the Israeli forces three of the cars
are for the world Central Kitchen and
they had uh Aid workers in uh inside the
cars uh so far we know that an
Australian a Polish a British a Canadian
and an American and a
Palestinian uh Aid workers were targeted
in those three cars it's very obvious
that these um workers were working with
the world Central Kitchen as we see
vests and uh the logos of the wck
organization we know that these um uh
cars were on their way back from the
port Northern of the Gaza Strip to their
guest house in Raa and every car is is
separated by at least 500 M which shows
that this Convoy was directly targeted
by the Israeli
forces this will have a lot of negative
consequences not only
on the humanitarian sector in the Gaza
Strip it will also have a huge major
consequences and a negative impact on a
lot of Aid workers on International
agencies currently operating in the Gaza
Strip these Aid workers were having an
aid ship and a convoy that had at least
400 uh metric tons of food to the north
of the Gaza Strip on the day they were
targeted this is
alaz Gaz well let's now speak to Tess
Ingram who spokesperson for Unicef and
she's joining us from arafa in southern
Gaza Tess good to have you with us on Al
jazer the killing of these Aid workers
must be extremely worrying for you and
your teams in
Gaza yeah it's incredibly worrying for
all of us we just had a meeting about it
here among agencies and it really just
speaks to the unacceptable conditions
that people are living in here in the
Gaza Strip and that humanitarian Aid
workers are operating in it's an immense
tragedy and it adds to the toll of you
know 30,000 people who've been killed
since the escalation and 174 un
colleagues who've also been killed so
it's it's a dark day for us here those
conditions that you talk about the
extremely difficult conditions that you
talk about can you tell us a bit more
about them because world Central Kitchen
in their statement said that they uh
actually coordinated with the Israelis
uh about their their location and where
they were going their car was clearly
marked their vehicle was clearly marked
what sort of uh you know uh talk do you
have with the Israelis when you're
you're uh operating on the ground in
Gaza and how difficult it is to actually
coordinate with
them so like conflicts all around the
world humanitarian agencies have a
coordination and notific ation system
where we say this is where we want to go
and what we want to do and we get the
security assurances that we need to do
our job and that is not functioning
properly here in the Gaza Strip and
we've been warning for a while that it's
not working we're not getting the
security assurances that we've need and
this is not the first time that we've
seen a vehicle being hit under
colleagues have been targeted before and
so it's incredibly concerning all of the
colleagues here are really just trying
to help people and it's even worse that
these colleagues were trying to deliver
food where on the precipice of a famine
it could happen at any moment now and
this was you know 100 tons of food a
that was being unloaded so it's it's uh
it's an unspeakable loss not just for
the people but for um the the community
of Gazza is as you say it's not the
first time that Aid workers have been
targeted um do you believe they're being
deliberately
targeted I think that we are here just
trying to do our job and what we need to
do now is is have a look at this
situation assess what has happened
overnight and decide how we move forward
because it's it's incredibly tough here
on the ground not just for us but for
the people of Gaza the bombardments are
unending here all all night all morning
and and we're some of the most protected
people in the GSA strip we have you know
armored vehicles and and um jackets like
this so uh for everybody in Gaza it's
it's incredibly unsafe yeah no one is
safe in Gaza uh Tess what impact will
will this attack have on Aid agencies
operating in the Gaza Strip could could
this cause you for example UNICEF to
reconsider your operations on the
ground we're still waiting for more
information on the strike you know World
social kitchen has obviously said that
they're pausing their operations for the
time being UNICEF is continuing uh for
the time being but this is you know a
very serious um moment in what has
happened in the Gaza Strip and as I said
it's it's another incident on top of the
so many that we've already endured here
and it's it's um it could have serious
impacts I think world Central Kitchen
pause on the aid operations because you
know as we know World Central Kitchen
was bringing in a lot of food a lot of
hospitals were relying on world Central
kitchens um food that they were
providing so this could have an impact
uh their po thank you very much for
speaking to us Tess Ingram from UNICEF
join joining us there from Rafa Southern
Gaza